---
tags: documentation,help wanted,hpc,package-management,python
title: "Install hdf5 as external library with fortran and mpi"
html_url: "https://github.com/spack/spack/issues/8386"
user: JohnWGrove
repo: spack/spack
---

Due to build issues on macs, I want to install hdf5 as an external library on my mac. I needed to hack the hdf5 source to get this to build, that went successfully and I was able to build and install the library. However when I try to register this in spack it gets the variants wrong. The entry I am using from packages.yaml is

hdf5:
    paths:
      hdf5@1.10.1 %gcc@7.3.0 arch=darwin-highsierra-x86_64+fortran+mpi: /usr/local/gnu/hdf5
      hdf5@1.10.1 %intel@18.0.3 arch=darwin-highsierra-x86_64+fortran+mpi: /usr/local/intel/hdf5
      hdf5@1.10.2 %gcc@7.3.0 arch=darwin-highsierra-x86_64+fortran+mpi: /usr/local/gnu/hdf5
      hdf5@1.10.2 %intel@18.0.3 arch=darwin-highsierra-x86_64+fortran+mpi: /usr/local/intel/hdf5
      buildable: False

note that hdf5@1.10.1 has a bug that prevents it from building in macs. This bug is fixed in hdf5@1.10.2. The hack I made was needed to produce dynamic libraries using the Intel compiler. Anyway I install the package using

spack install hdf5@1.10.1+fortran+mpi %gcc@7.3.0

(and similarly for the other cases). The install gives normal messages and "spack find hdf5" reports

==> 1 installed packages.
-- darwin-highsierra-x86_64 / gcc@7.3.0 -------------------------
hdf5@1.10.1

as it should. However when I run spack -v hdf5 I get

hdf5@1.10.1~cxx~debug~fortran~hl+mpi+pic+shared~szip~threadsafe

the installation has disabled fortran (DRAT!!). This messes up the build system I am using which wants hdf5 to have fortran (I built hdf5 by hand to have  fortran).

### Expected Result

spack find -v to report

hdf5@1.10.1~cxx~debug+fortran~hl+mpi+pic+shared~szip~threadsafe

### Actual Result

The external library thinks it doesn't have fortran.

### Steps to reproduce the issue

compile hdf5 by hand and install it as an external library.

### Information on your system

This includes:

 macOS 10.13.4
Mac Pro late 2013

-----

We encourage you to try, as much as possible, to reduce your problem to the minimal example that still reproduces the issue. That would help us a lot in fixing it quickly and effectively!

If you want to ask a question about the tool (how to use it, what it can currently do, etc.), try the `#general` channel on our Slack first. We have a welcoming community and chances are you'll get your reply faster and without opening an issue.

Other than that, thanks for taking the time to contribute to Spack!